---
title: The rise of TSMC - Taiwan’s silicon shield
date: 2023-03-31
tags:
- books
- software
---


A computer chip is a simple thing: it is a grid of electrical switches, known as transistors, that can turn on and off to represent 0 and 1. Yet these 0s and 1s form the foundation of computing, as we use chips to process and manipulate them to watch videos, make trading decisions, and launch rockets into space. Our current smartphone has over a dozen of chips running different computations, memory functions, and the majority of the cost for smartphones go to chips. In 2022, the pandemic caused major delays in car manufacturers, but these delays were not due to equipment or raw materials, but due to the undersupply of the chips in the cars.  For something that was invented less than 70 years ago, chips have become the foundation of modern technology, and Taiwan is at the front and center.

37% of global chip supply and 57% of the world’s revenue shares is dominated by a single company -  Taiwan’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC). Yet its ascendency is remarkable considering its late arrival in 1987, 40 years after the first transistor was invented, and nearly two decades after major semiconductor companies like Samsung and Intel had dominated the market. Much of it can be attributed to the strategic leadership and ingenuity of its founder, Morris Chang.

Yet the story of TSMC's success cannot be fully understood without considering the many other factors, including the history of semiconductors, Taiwan's economic policies, and its relationships with the US, China, and Asia. This article will explore TSMC’s inception, starting with the founder’s story, before delving into the nuances and complexities that have shaped the company’s foundation, highlighting the contingency of history, the forces of glocalization, and the importance of being in the right place at the right time.
---

## Founder’s story

Born in Mainland China in 1931, Morris Chang spent his childhood constantly fleeing from war, moving from Hong Kong to Shanghai and then Chungking, before finally settling in the US at the age of 18. Here he got an Electrical Engineering degree at MIT and worked at Sylvania Semiconductor for 3 years before moving to Texas Instrument, where he stayed for 25 years and worked his way to Vice President. However, as his career advancement stalled, he ultimately resigned and worked briefly for another semiconductor company before getting an offer from a Taiwanese minister,  Li Kwoh-ting, to become President of the Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI), a Taiwanese research institution. In 1985, Chang took the offer and moved to Taiwan. 

He barely settled in ITRI when in 1987, another opportunity came up - the Taiwanese government wanted to build another semiconductor company, and Chang to lead it. But this was in the 1980s, when there were established giants everywhere in the world, from Intel in the US, to Samsung in Korea and Nikon in Japan. But Chang thought there was a gap: the chip foundry. 

In the 1980s, chip design and manufacturing started to separate. The result was a growing number of fabless firms, that specialized in chip design for a variety of niche usage but were dependent on larger companies like Intel to produce the chips for them. These fabless companies were often treated as second-class citizens as manufacturing firms prioritized their chip in-house production first, and often had products that directly competed with the company. 

The chip foundry would fill in this gap: it would be a manufacturing firm only, accepting designs from external customers. The idea was novel at the time - all chip companies at the time were both designing and producing their own chips; Chang’s foundry would be the first. But Chang was undaunted. In 1987, TSMC was created with $220 million in capital, and the rest was history. As the 1990s saw an explosion of fabless companies, including Apple, NVIDIA and Qualcomm, that remain loyal customers of TSMC to this day. TSMC’s rise is a testament to Chang’s strategic ability and foresightedness.

---
## Taiwanese’s government role

Nonetheless, this common narrative did not paint the entire picture. While Morris Chang's visionary business model undoubtedly played a critical role in TSMC's triumph, the company's establishment was fundamentally reliant on the Taiwanese government even before its conception. 

Under the leadership of Taiwan’s prime minister Sun Yun-suan, Taiwan was transforming from an agricultural economy to an industrial powerhouse. Its oil crisis in 1972 - 1973, which dropped Taiwan’s economic growth from 10% to 1%, made Sun realize the importance of investing in technology. As early as 1975, the Taiwanese government was already involved in the semiconductor industry, most notably with the establishment of ITRI (that Morris Chang would later become President of) and the RCA technology transfer program. The Taiwanese government partnered with RCA to import its equipment and intellectual property licenses but also sent Taiwanese to the US to receive training on the manufacturing process. More than equipping itself with technology, this created a new generation of skilled workforce that could solve manufacturing problems on their own. Many of the early engineers in the RCA program later became industrial giants in Taiwan’s semiconductor industry, and it led to the creation of Taiwan’s first semiconductor manufacturing firm, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).

TSMC was likewise a product of the Taiwanese state’s intervention. Shortly after Chang arrived at ITRI, Minister Li asked him to create a new business plan for a new Taiwanese semiconductor company and promised the government would fund it. When Chang came up with the plan for a pure-play foundry, the government invested 48% of the $220 million start-up capital, and Phillips, a Dutch semiconductor company, pitched in 27%. The rest was from a dozen Taiwanese investors, which were, according to Chang, “coerced by the government” into investing, including Sun himself. When a billionaire hesitated to invest, Sun called to remind him, “The Taiwanese government had been very good to you. You better do something for the government now.” Soon after, Chang received the check for his foundry.

Taiwanese government support did not stop there. TSMC got a free 100-million-dollar foundry from ITRC, along with its 500-600 trainees, and numerous subsidies to keep going in its first few years. This would create resentment from UMC, which did not receive any subsidies and had to build its own manufacturing plant as the government wanted to keep it competitive. Meanwhile, the engineers that worked in TSMC were an accumulation of both domestic and foreign talents that the government had cultivated since the early 1970s. In 1976, the National Science Council launched a large-scale electronic project, supporting the largest 4 universities in Taiwan to study semiconductor technology. There were also incentives for Ph.D. programs, and replacing military service with working in R&D. Finally, the strategic RCA license transfer also groomed numerous semiconductor talents in-house. All of them formed the much-needed workforce for TSMC to succeed.

Global forces 

Yet, taking a step back further, there were global forces at play. Given that the idea first circulated in the 1970s, why was it that Taiwan was the first country to create the foundry, and not the US, Japan or China? 

To answer, we need to look at the global context, most notably, the US-Japan trade war. Japan was dominating the semiconductor market in the 1980s and accounted for 51% of global sales as of 1988. But this was made possible in part due to overinvestment by the Japanese government, allowing companies to keep expanding without worrying about profitability. This caused angry responses in Silicon Valley and the U.S. government, which threatened to shut Japan out of the US market, its biggest customer in electronics. Thus, in 1986, Japan agreed to limit its sales of chips to the US and increased its price. As Japan’s stock market crashed in 1990, major semiconductor companies, once kept afloat by overinvestment, quickly lost market shares. Its failure to innovate and diversify from the relatively low-tech memory chip DRAM cut deep and Japan struggled to gain its relevance since.

Meanwhile, in the US, Intel was pivoting its market from DRAM to x86 microprocessor for the personal computer, a growing market that would lead to its global dominance in the 1990s. As Intel profited immensely from its deep integration with Windows operating system, there was little need to diversify its products. Thus, it missed the rise of the smartphone and AI, and with it new semiconductor needs that ended up being provided by TSMC.

Across the ocean, China’s State Council had already identified the semiconductor industry as a key priority in 1956 and started researching in 1965. But the Cultural Revolution by Mao Zedong from 1965 to 1975 destroyed most of its progress, as scientists were sent to the countryside to work as farmers and electronics took a backseat to steel and iron production. Even as his successors took over and re-established the importance of semiconductors in 1978, the damage was already done. By 1985, China had imported 24 secondhand semiconductor manufacturing lines, but only one factory met production targets. As electronic companies like Huawei started rising in the late 1980s, they have since been dependent on foreign chips in Taiwan and the US. 

The Cultural Revolution also had an unexpected secondary effect. As high-skilled labor fled the Cultural Revolution, they ended up settling in California and Taiwan, building the electronic capacities of China’s rivals. Taiwanese government was also strategically creating associations like Monte Jade to connect with Chinese-American in Silicon Valley to come back to Taiwan and build Taiwan’s technology industry. Even Chang himself was born in China but ultimately became the leader of Taiwan’s semiconductor industry. 

Finally, it is important to explain why there were no newcomers since TSMC. The semiconductor industry is governed by Moore’s Law, which predicates that the computing power of the chip doubles every 18 months. This means the industry is driven by the high cost of R&D and manufacturing equipment that only becomes profitable at high volume or government protection, often both. While TSMC’s investment paid off, it was possible only because in the 1980s, playing catch-up with cutting-edge technology was not astronomically expensive. By contrast, when China tried to re-enter the market with its state-owned SMIC in the 2010s, despite significant investment by the Chinese government and multiple acquisitions for technology transfer, its technology to this day remains 5-6 years behind Taiwan. 

---

China-born, American-educated, Taiwanese businessman Morris Chang is the exemplar of the glocalization process. His company’s ascent was contingent on the strategic Taiwanese leadership, but also the US’ technological advancement and even the cultural reminiscence of the Cultural Revolution across the ocean. TSMC is a product of globalization, but its rise has also been the source of tension for the US-China war as China increasingly threatens to attack Taiwan. TSMC has become a “silicon shield” for Taiwan as global reliance on the chipmaker keeps the island safe. How long the shield will last, in return, is dependent on how long China will take to remove its reliance on Taiwan and US’s chip industry.

In looking at the forces at play, TSMC’s foundation was not only due to Chang’s brilliance, but also because of timing, situation and luck. Yet this is the common denominator of all successful businesses. Understanding this interplay is not to diminish Chang’s contribution, but to better appreciate the interconnectedness of our world in building the foundation of the digital economy as we know it today. 

